# Election Analysis

## Project Overview
The client has asked to complete an election audit of a local congressional election.

1. How many votes were cast in this congressional election?
2. Provide a breakdown of the number of votes and the percentage of total votes for each county in the precinct.
3. Which county had the largest number of votes?
4. Provide a breakdown of the number of the vote and the percentage of the total votes each candidate received.
5. Which candidate won the election, what was their vote count, and what was their percentage of the total votes?
 
## Election Audit Results
The analysis of the election shows that:
- There were 369,711 votes cast in the election.
- The candidates were:
  - Charles Casper Stockham
  - Diana DeGette
  - Raymon Anthony Doane
- The candidate results were:
  - Charles Casper Stockham received 23.0% of the total vote or 85,213 votes.
  - Diana DeGette received 73.8% of the total vote or 272,892 votes.
  - Raymon Anthony Doane received 3.1% of the total vote or 11,606 votes.
- The winner of the election:
  - Diana DeGette won by a large margin.

- The counties in the election were:
  - Jefferson
  - Denver
  - Arapahoe
- The county results were:
  - Jefferson county delivered 10.5% of the total vote or 38,855 votes. 
  - Denver county delivered 82.8% of the total vote or 306,055 votes.
  - Arapahoe county delivered 6.7% of the total vote or 24,801 votes.
- Largest county turnout:
  - Denver had the highest county turnout by a large margin. 

- Results were generated by writing a Python script in Microsoft Visual Studio and then saving the information to a text file.
- The client provided a CSV file that we used to loop through the election information. 

```
Election Results
-------------------------
Total Votes: 369,711
-------------------------

County Votes:
Jefferson: 10.5%, (38,855)
Denver: 82.8%, (306,055)
Arapahoe: 6.7%, (24,801)

-------------------------
Largest County Turnout: Denver
-------------------------
Charles Casper Stockham: 23.0% (85,213)
Diana DeGette: 73.8% (272,892)
Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.1% (11,606)
-------------------------
Winner: Diana DeGette
Winning Vote Count: 272,892
Winning Percentage: 73.8%
-------------------------
```

## Election Audit Summary
The sheet is dynamic and can be used for almost any election if specific changes are made to the script. 
- Assuming the next election file will be provided in a CSV format, then the first section that will need to change is the file path.
  - The ```file_to_load``` variable will need to change to load the new CSV file. 
  - The ```file_to_save``` variable should change so that a new text file is created for every new data set.   

```
# Add a variable to load a file from a path.
file_to_load = os.path.join("Resources", "election_results.csv")
# Add a variable to save the file to a path.
file_to_save = os.path.join("analysis", "election_analysis.txt")
```

- Next, in the ```for``` loop, a different election file might have new rows and columns that might not match up to the index below.

```
        # Get the candidate name from each row.
        candidate_name = row[2]

        # 3: Extract the county name from each row.
        county_name = row[1]
```

- Lastly, the ```f strings``` may need to be updated depending on how the new set of election data is formatted.
- For example, in the future, county votes might not matter, and we need to know what the total votes are at the state level. 

```
    election_results = (
        f"\nElection Results\n"
        f"-------------------------\n"
        f"Total Votes: {total_votes:,}\n"
        f"-------------------------\n\n"
        f"County Votes:\n")
        
   candidate_results = (
        f"{candidate_name}: {vote_percentage:.1f}% ({votes:,})\n")
        
   winning_candidate_summary = (
        f"-------------------------\n"
        f"Winner: {winning_candidate}\n"
        f"Winning Vote Count: {winning_count:,}\n"
        f"Winning Percentage: {winning_percentage:.1f}%\n"
        f"-------------------------\n")
```        
